# DDA4250 Assignment 1

CHEN Ang (118010009) $\newcommand{\v}{\boldsymbol}$ $\newcommand{\b}{\mathbf}$ $\newcommand{\id}{\text{id}_\R}$

## Notation

For conciseness we introduce the following notation.

- $\b R:$ multidimensional rectifier functions of suitable dimensions
- $[a..b]:= \{x\in \Z:a\le x\le b\}$

## 2.1.2

With $\v \theta=(1,-1,0,0,1,1,0)\in\R^7,l_1=l_L=2$,
$$
\mathcal N_{\b R,\id}^{\v\theta,1}(x)=\b R(x)+\b R(-x)=\begin{cases}
\b R(x)=x,\qquad\quad\ \ \text{if }x\ge 0\\
\b R(-x)=-x,\quad\text{otherwise}
\end{cases}=|x|
$$
$$
\b d=7=2 l_{1}+\left[\sum_{k=2}^{L} l_{k}\left(l_{k-1}+1\right)\right]+l_{L}+1
$$

## 2.1.3

**Definition.** A function $f:\R\to\R$ is said to be piecewise linear with a finite (interval) partition if there exist $n\in \N$ and an interval partition $P=\{p_1,...,p_n\}$ of $\R$ such that $f(x)=f_i(x)$ is an affine transform on each of the interval $p_i\in P$. It is required that $p_i\neq \empty$ for all $p_i\in P$.

$\newcommand{\layer}[1]{\v x^{(#1)}}$**Lemma.** Let $f:\R\to \R$ and $g:\R\to \R$ be two piecewise linear functions with finite partitions. Then the function $\mathcal L:\R\to \R$ given by $x\to c_1f(x)+c_2g(x)+d$ is also piecewise linear with a finite partition.

*Proof of Lemma.* Let $P=\left\{p_1,...,p_m\right\}$ be a partition of $\R$ such that in each interval $p_i\in P$, $f(x)=f_i(x)$ is an affine transform. Similarly let $Q=\left\{q_1,...,q_n\right\}$ be a partition of $\R$ such that in each interval $q_i\in Q$, $g(x)=g_j(x)$ is affine. Clearly,
$$
S=\{p\cap q:p\in P,q\in Q\}\ \backslash\ \empty
$$
is also a (finite) partition of $\R$. Moreover, for each interval $s\in S$, there exist $(i,j)\in[1..m]\times[1..n]$ such that $s=p_i\cap q_j$, and thus for all $x\in s$,
$$
\mathcal L(x)=c_1f(x) + c_2g(x)+d=c_1f_i(x)+c_2 g_i(x)+d
$$
is affine. Hence $\mathcal L$ is piecewise linear with a finite partition.

---

There is no such $\mathcal N$. To see that, let $\mathcal N_{\b R,...\b R,\id}^{\v \theta,1}$ be given. We can show by induction that for any layer $ k\in[0..L+1]$ of the network, the neurons of the layer $\layer k$ are all piecewise linear functions of $x$ with finite partitions.

Layer $0$ is just the input neuron with value $x$, which is linear on the entire $\R$.

Suppose that all neurons $\layer k$ of some layer $k\in[0..L]$ are piecewise linear with finite partitions. Consider neurons on the next layer:
$$
\layer{k+1}=\b R \circ \mathcal A^{(k)}\left(\layer k\right)=\b R\left(\v W^{(k)}\layer k+\v b^{(k)}\right)
$$
Equivalently for all $i\in[1..l_k]$,
$$
\layer{k+1}_i=\b R\left(\v w_i^\top \layer k+\v b^{(k)}_i\right)
$$
where $\v w_i^\top$ denotes the $i$-th row of $\v W^{(k)}$. From the assumption that $\layer k$ are all piecewise linear with finite partitions, we know by Lemma that $\v w_i^\top \layer k+\v b^{(k)}_i$ is also piecewise linear with some finite partition $P=\{p_1,...,p_n\}$. Thus on each interval $p_j\in P$, $f_j(x):=\v w_i^\top \layer k+\v b^{(k)}_i$ is affine. Define for each $j\in[1..n]$ the set $\Omega_j^+:=\{x:x\in p_j,f_j(x)\ge0\}$ and $\Omega_j^-:=p_j\backslash\Omega_j^+$.  It holds that for $x\in p_j$, $j\in[1..n]$,
$$
\b R\circ f_j(x)=\begin{cases}
f_j(x),\quad\text{if }x\in \Omega_j^+\\
0,\qquad\ \ \ \text{if } x\in\Omega_j^-
\end{cases}
$$
is affine in either set of the partition $\{\Omega^+_j,\Omega^-_j\}$. Further, since $f_j(x)$ is affine, both $\Omega_j^+$ and $\Omega_j^-$ must be intervals (possibly empty). Hence
$$
Q:=\left\{\Omega_j^+:j\in[1..n]\right\}\cup \left\{\Omega_j^-:j\in[1..n]\right\}\ \backslash\ \empty
$$
forms a finite interval partition of $\R$ such that $\layer{k+1}_i$ is affine on any interval $q\in Q$. In other words, $\layer{k+1}_i$ is piecewise linear with a finite partition for all $i$, completing the induction.

Applying this result on layer $L+1$ shows that the output $\mathcal N_{\b R,...\b R,\id}^{\v \theta,1}(x)=\v x_{L+1}$ must be piecewise linear in $x$ with a finite partition, which cannot be $e^x$.

## 2.1.4

With $\v \theta=(1,-1,0,1,0,-1,0,0,0,1,1,-1,0)\in\R^{13},l_1=l_L=3$, for all $(x,y)\in \R^2$
$$
\begin{aligned}
\mathcal N_{\b R,\id}^{\v\theta,2}(x,y)&=\b R(x-y)+\b R(y)-\b R(-y)\\

&=\b R(x-y)+ y

\\


&=\begin{cases}
x-y+y=x,\quad\text{if }x\ge y\\
0+y=y,\qquad\text{otherwise}
\end{cases}

\\&=\max\{x,y\}


\end{aligned}
$$

$$
\b d=13=3 l_{1}+\left[\sum_{k=2}^{L} l_{k}\left(l_{k-1}+1\right)\right]+l_{L}+1
$$

## 2.1.4

With $\v \theta=(1,-1,0,0,1,0,0,1,0,0,1,-1,0)\in\R^{13},l_1=2,l_2=2$, for all $x\in \R$
$$
\begin{aligned}
\mathcal N_{\b R,\b R,\id}^{\v\theta,1}(x)

&=\b R\circ\b R(x)-\b R\circ \b R(-x)

\\

&=\b R(x)-\b R(-x)

\\


&=x


\end{aligned}
$$
$$
\b d=13=2 l_{1}+l_1l_2+2l_2 + 1
$$

where the second equality comes from the fact that $\b R(x)\ge0$.

